.TH HOSTNAME 1 "2025-09-10" "net\-tools" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"

.SH NAME
hostname \- show or set the system's host name
.br
dnsdomainname \- show the system's DNS domain name
.br
domainname \- show or set the system's NIS/YP domain name
.br
nisdomainname \- show or set system's NIS/YP domain name
.br
nodename \- show or set the system's DECnet node name
.br
ypdomainname \- show or set the system's NIS/YP domain name

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY hostname
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-a | \-\-alias ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-domain ]
.RB [ \-f | \-\-fqdn | \-\-long ]
.RB [ \-i | \-\-ip\-address ]
.RB [ \-s | \-\-short ]

.P
.SY hostname
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-y | \-\-yp | \-\-nis ]
.RB [ \-n | \-\-node ]

.P
.SY hostname
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-F
.I filename
.RB | \-\-file
.IR filename | newname ]
.br
.SY domainname
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-F
.I filename
.RB | \-\-file
.IR filename | newname ]
.br
.SY nodename
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-F
.I filename
.RB | \-\-file
.IR filename | newname ]

.P
.SY dnsdomainname
.RB [ \-v ]
.br
.SY nisdomainname
.RB [ \-v ]
.br
.SY ypdomainname
.RB [ \-v ]

.P
.SY hostname
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-V | \-\-version ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Hostname
is the program that is used to either set or display
the current host, domain or node name of the system.
These names are used by many of the networking programs to identify
the machine.  The domain name is also used by NIS/YP.

.SS "GET NAME"
When called without any arguments, the program displays the current
names:

.LP
.B hostname
will print the name of the system as returned by the
.BR gethostname (2)
function.

.LP
.B "domainname, nisdomainname, ypdomainname"
will print the name of the system as returned by the
.BR getdomainname (2)
function. This is also known as the YP/NIS domain name of the system.

.LP
.B nodename
will print the DECnet node name of the system as returned by the
.BR getnodename (2)
function.

.LP
.B dnsdomainname
will print the domain part of the FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name). The
complete FQDN of the system is returned with
.BR "hostname \-\-fqdn" .

.SS "SET NAME"
When called with one argument or with the
.B \-\-file
option, the commands set the host name, the NIS/YP domain name or
the node name.

.P
Note, that only the super-user can change the names.

.P
It is not possible to set the FQDN or the DNS domain name with the
.B dnsdomainname
command (see
.B "THE FQDN"
below).

.P
The host name is usually set once at system startup by reading the
contents of a file which contains the host name, e.g.
.IR /etc/hostname ).

.SS THE FQDN
You can't change the FQDN (as returned by
.BR "hostname \-\-fqdn" )
or the DNS domain name (as returned by
.BR "dnsdomainname" )
with this command. The FQDN of the system is the name that the
.BR resolver (3)
returns for the host name.

.P
Technically: The FQDN is the canonical name returned by
.BR gethostbyname2 (2)
when resolving the result of the
.BR gethostname (2)
name. The DNS domain name is the part after the first dot..LP
Therefore it depends on the configuration (usually in
.IR /etc/host.conf )
how you can change it. If
.B hosts
is the first lookup method, you can change the FQDN in
.IR /etc/hosts .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-a, \-\-alias"
Display the alias name of the host (if used).
.TP
.B "\-d, \-\-domain"
Display the name of the DNS domain (this is the FQDN without the segment up
to the first dot). This is equivalent to using the
.B dnsdomainname
command.
.TP
.BI "\-F, \-\-file" " filename"
Read the new host name from the specified file. Comments (lines starting with
a `\fB#\fP') are ignored.
.TP
.B "\-f, \-\-fqdn, \-\-long"
Display the FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name). A FQDN consists of name
including the DNS domain.
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Print a usage message and exit.
.TP
.B "\-i, \-\-ip\-address"
Display the IP address(es) of the host.
.TP
.B "\-n, \-\-node"
Display the DECnet node name. If a parameter is given (or
.BI \-\-file " name"
) the root can also set a new node name.
.TP
.B "\-s, \-\-short"
Display the short host name. This is the host name cut at the first dot.
.TP
.B "\-V, \-\-version"
Print version information on standard output and exit successfully.
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Be verbose and tell what's going on.
.TP
.B "\-y, \-\-yp, \-\-nis"
Display the NIS domain name. If a parameter is given (or
.BI \-\-file " name"
) then root can also set a new NIS domain.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/hostname
.I /etc/hosts
.I /etc/host.conf

.SH SEE ALSO
Homepage of the \fInet\-tools\fP project:
.UR https://net-tools.sourceforge.io
.UE

.P
.BR hostname (5),
.BR hostname (7),
.BR hosts (5)
.br
.BR hostnamectl (8)
if \fIsystemd\fP is used.

.SH AUTHOR
Peter Tobias <tobias@et\-inf.fho\-emden.de>,
.br
Bernd Eckenfels <net\-tools@lina.inka.de> (NIS support),
.br
Steve Whitehouse <SteveW@ACM.org> (DECnet support).
