.\"
.\" netstat.8 
.\"
.\" Original: (mdw@tc.cornell.edu & dc6iq@insu1.etec.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Modified: Bernd.Eckenfels@inka.de
.\" Modified: Andi Kleen ak@muc.de 
.\" Modified: Tuan Hoang tqhoang@bigfoot.com 
.\"
.\"
.TH NETSTAT 8 "29 February 2000" "net-tools" "Linux Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
netstat \- Print network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, masquerade connections, netlink messages, and multicast memberships

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B netstat 
.RI [ address_family_options ]
.RB [ \-\-tcp | \-t ]
.RB [ \-\-udp | \-u ]
.RB [ \-\-raw | \-w ]
.RB [ \-\-listening | \-l ]
.RB [ \-\-all | \-a ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-symbolic | \-N ]
.RB [ \-\-extend | \-e  [ \-\-extend | \-e] ]
.RB [ \-\-timers | \-o ]
.RB [ \-\-program | \-p ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose | \-v ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]

.PP

.B netstat 
.RB { \-\-route | \-r }
.RI [ address_family_options ]
.RB [ \-\-extend | \-e  [ \-\-extend | \-e] ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose | \-v ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]

.PP

.B netstat
.RB { \-\-interfaces | \-i }
.RI [ iface ]
.RB [ \-\-all | \-a ]
.RB [ \-\-extend | \-e  [ \-\-extend | \-e] ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose | \-v ]
.RB [ \-\-program | \-p ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]

.PP

.B netstat
.RB [ \-\-groups | \-g ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]

.PP

.B netstat
.RB { \-\-masquerade | \-M }
.RB [ \-\-extend | \-e ]
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]

.PP

.B netstat
.RB { \-\-statistics | -s }
.RB [ \-\-tcp | \-t ]
.RB [ \-\-udp | \-u ]
.RB [ \-\-raw | \-w ]

.PP

.B netstat 
.RB { \-\-netlink | \-L }
.RB [ \-\-numeric | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-continuous | \-c]

.PP

.B netstat 
.RB { \-\-version | \-V }

.PP

.B netstat 
.RB { \-\-help | \-h }

.PP

.IR address_family_options :
.PP
.RB [ \-\-protocol= { inet , unix , ipx , ax25 , netrom , ddp }[, ...] ]
.RB [ \-\-unix | \-x ] 
.RB [ \-\-inet | \-\-ip ]
.RB [ \-\-ax25 ]
.RB [ \-\-ipx ] 
.RB [ \-\-netrom ]
.RB [ \-\-ddp ]



.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Netstat
prints information about the Linux networking subsystem.

.SS "(no option)"
By default, 
.B
netstat 
prints the status of network connections by listing the open
sockets.  If you don't specify any address families, then the active
sockets of all configured address families will be printed. With
.BR \-\-extend " (" \-e )
you get some additional information (userid).  Use it twice to add
more information (inode number).  With the
.BR \-\-verbose " (" \-v )
option, you can make netstat complain about known address families which are
not supported by the kernel. The
.BR \-\-timers " (" \-o )
option prints some additional information on networking timers. Enabling the
.BR \-\-program " (" \-p )
will show you the process PID and name of the program that has the socket
open.
.BR \-\-listening " (" \-L )
makes
.B
netstat
show only the sockets which are only listening, which are omitted by default.
With 
.BR \-\-all " (" \-a ),
you get both the listening and the non-listening sockets.  The address
family
.B inet
includes raw, udp and tcp protocol sockets.

.SS "\-\-route , \-r"
With the
.BR \-\-route " (" \-r )
option, you get the kernel routing tables in the same format as
.B "route -e" 
use.
.B "netstat --route --extend" 
uses the output format of
.BR route .
Please see
.BR route (8)
for details.

.SS "\-\-groups , \-g"
With the
.BR \-\-groups " (" \-g ) 
option, IGMP multicast group membership information for IPv4 and IPv6 is 
printed.

.SS "\-\-interface=\fIiface \fR, \fB\-i"
If you use the
.BR \-\-interfaces " (" -\i )
option, a table of all (or the specified 
.IR iface ) 
networking interfaces will be printed. The output uses the
.B "ifconfig -e"
format, and is described in
.BR ifconfig (8).
.B "netstat --interface --extend" 
will print a table or a single interface entry just like
.B ifconfig
does. With the
.BR \-\-all " (" \-a )
option, you can include interfaces which are not configured (i.e. don't have
the 
.BR U = UP
flag set).

.SS "\-\-masquerade , \-M"

This generates a list of masqueraded sessions.  With the
.BR \-\-extend " (" \-e )
option, you can include some more information about sequence numbering and
deltas, caused by data rewrites on FTP sessions (PORT
command). Masquerade support is used to hide hosts with unofficial network
addresses from the outside world, as described in
.BR ipfw "(4), " ipfwadm "(8), and " ipfw (8).

.SS "\-\-statistics , \-s"

.B netstat

prints summary statistics for each protocol.

.SS "\-\-netlink , \-N"

Recent kernels have a kernel/user communication support called netlink. You
can get messages about creation or deletion of interfaces or routes from
.I /dev/route
(36,0).

.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "\-\-verbose , \-v"
Tell the user what is going on by being verbose. Especially print some
useful information about unconfigured address families.

.SS "\-\-numeric , \-n"
shows numerical addresses instead of trying to determine symbolic host, port
or user names.

.SS "\-\-protocol=\fIfamily \fR, \fB\-A"
Specifies the address families (perhaps better described as low level
protocols) for which connections are to be shown.
.I family 
is a comma (',') separated list of address family keywords like
.BR inet , 
.BR unix , 
.BR ipx , 
.BR ax25 , 
.BR netrom ,
and
.BR ddp .
This has the same effect as using the 
.BR \-\-inet ,
.BR \-\-unix " (" \-x ),
.BR \-\-ipx ,
.BR \-\-ax25 ,
.BR \-\-netrom ,
and
.B \-\-ddp 
options.

.SS "\-c, \-\-continous"
This will cause
.B netstat
to print the selected information every second continously.

.PP
.SH OUTPUT

.PP
.SS Active Internet connections \fR(TCP, UDP, raw)\fR

.SS "Proto" 
The protocol (tcp, udp, raw) used by the socket. 

.SS "Recv-Q"
The count of bytes not copied by the user program connected to this socket.

.SS "Send-Q"
The count of bytes not acknowledged by the remote host.

.SS "Local Address" 
Address and port number of the local end of the socket.  Unless the
.BR \-\-numeric " (" \-n )
option is specified, the socket address is resolved to its canonical
host name (FQDN), and the port number is translated into the
corresponding service name.

.SS "Foreign Address"
Address and port number of the remote end of the socket.
Analogous to "Local Address."

.SS "State"
The state of the socket. Since there are no states in raw mode and usually no
states used in UDP, this column may be left blank. Normally this can be one
of several values:
.TP
.I
ESTABLISHED
The socket has an established connection.
.TP
.I
SYN_SENT
The socket is actively attempting to establish a connection.
.TP
.I
SYN_RECV
A connection request has been received from the network.
.TP
.I
FIN_WAIT1
The socket is closed, and the connection is shutting down.
.TP
.I
FIN_WAIT2
Connection is closed, and the socket is waiting for a shutdown from the
remote end.
.TP
.I
TIME_WAIT
The socket is waiting after close to handle packets still in the network.
.TP
.I
CLOSED
The socket is not being used.
.TP
.I
CLOSE_WAIT
The remote end has shut down, waiting for the socket to close.
.TP
.I
LAST_ACK
The remote end has shut down, and the socket is closed. Waiting for
acknowledgement.
.TP
.I
LISTEN
The socket is listening for incoming connections.  Such sockets are 
not included in the output unless you specify the 
.BR \-\-listening " (" \-l )
or 
.BR \-\-all " (" \-a )
option.
.TP
.I
CLOSING
Both sockets are shut down but we still don't have all our data
sent.
.TP
.I
UNKNOWN
The state of the socket is unknown.

.SS "User"
The username or the user id (UID) of the owner of the socket.

.SS "PID/Program name"
Slash-separated pair of the process id (PID) and process name of the 
process that owns the socket.
.B --program
causes this column to be included.  You will also need
.I superuser
privileges to see this information on sockets you don't own.  This
identification information is not yet available for IPX sockets.

.SS "Timer"
(this needs to be written)


.PP
.SS Active UNIX domain Sockets


.SS "Proto" 
The protocol (usually unix) used by the socket.

.SS "RefCnt"
The reference count (i.e. attached processes via this socket).

.SS "Flags"
The flags displayed is SO_ACCEPTON (displayed as 
.BR ACC ),
SO_WAITDATA 
.RB ( W )
or SO_NOSPACE 
.RB ( N ). 
SO_ACCECPTON 
is used on unconnected sockets if their corresponding
processes are waiting for a connect request. The other flags are not
of normal interest.

.SS "Type"
There are several types of socket access:
.TP
.I
SOCK_DGRAM
The socket is used in Datagram (connectionless) mode.
.TP
.I
SOCK_STREAM
This is a stream (connection) socket.
.TP
.I
SOCK_RAW
The socket is used as a raw socket.
.TP
.I
SOCK_RDM
This one serves reliably-delivered messages.
.TP
.I
SOCK_SEQPACKET
This is a sequential packet socket.
.TP
.I
SOCK_PACKET
Raw interface access socket.
.TP
.I
UNKNOWN
Who ever knows what the future will bring us - just fill in here :-)

.PP
.SS "State"
This field will contain one of the following Keywords:
.TP
.I FREE
The socket is not allocated
.TP
.I LISTENING 
The socket is listening for a connection request.  Such
sockets are only included in the output if you specify the
.BR \-\-listening " (" \-l )
or
.BR \-\-all " (" \-a )
option.
.TP
.I CONNECTING
The socket is about to establish a connection.
.TP
.I CONNECTED
The socket is connected.
.TP
.I DISCONNECTING
The socket is disconnecting.
.TP
.I (empty)
The socket is not connected to another one.
.TP
.I UNKNOWN
This state should never happen.

.SS "PID/Program name"
Process ID (PID) and process name of the process that has the socket open. 
More info available in
.B "Active Internet connections"
section written above.

.SS "Path"
This is the path name as which the corresponding processes attached
to the socket.

.PP
.SS Active IPX sockets

(this needs to be done by somebody who knows it)

.PP
.SS Active NET/ROM sockets

(this needs to be done by somebody who knows it)

.PP
.SS Active AX.25 sockets

(this needs to be done by somebody who knows it)

.PP
.SH NOTES
Starting with Linux Release 2.2 
.B netstat -i 
does not show interface statistics for alias interfaces. To get per
alias interface counters you need to setup explicit rules using the
.BR ipchains(8) 
command.  

.SH FILES
.ta
.I /etc/services
-- The services translation file

.I /proc
-- Mount point for the proc filesystem, which gives access to kernel 
status information via the following files.

.I /proc/net/dev
-- device information

.I /proc/net/raw
-- raw socket information


.I /proc/net/tcp
-- TCP socket information

.I /proc/net/udp
-- UDP socket information

.I /proc/net/igmp
-- IGMP multicast information

.I /proc/net/unix
-- Unix domain socket information

.I /proc/net/ipx
-- IPX socket information

.I /proc/net/ax25
-- AX25 socket information

.I /proc/net/appletalk
-- DDP (appletalk) socket information

.I /proc/net/nr
-- NET/ROM socket information

.I /proc/net/route
-- IP routing information

.I /proc/net/ax25_route
-- AX25 routing information

.I /proc/net/ipx_route
-- IPX routing information

.I /proc/net/nr_nodes
-- NET/ROM nodelist

.I /proc/net/nr_neigh
-- NET/ROM neighbours

.I /proc/net/ip_masquerade
-- masqueraded connections

.fi

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR route (8), 
.BR ifconfig (8), 
.BR ipfw (4), 
.BR ipfw (8), 
.BR ipfwadm (8),
.BR ipchains (8),
.BR proc (5)

.PP
.SH BUGS
Occasionally strange information may appear if a socket changes
as it is viewed. This is unlikely to occur.
.br
The
.B netstat -i
options is described as it should work after some code cleanup of the BETA
release of the net-tools package.

.PP
.SH AUTHORS
The netstat user interface was written by Fred Baumgarten
<dc6iq@insu1.etec.uni-karlsruhe.de> the man page basically
by Matt Welsh <mdw@tc.cornell.edu>. It was updated by
Alan Cox <Alan.Cox@linux.org> but could do with a bit more
work.  It was updated again by Tuan Hoang
<tqhoang@bigfoot.com>.
.br
The man page and the command included in the net-tools
package is totally rewritten by Bernd Eckenfels 
<ecki@linux.de>.
