.TH PLIPCONFIG 8 "2025-09-10" "net\-tools" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"

.SH NAME
plipconfig \- fine tune PLIP device parameters

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plipconfig
.I Interface
.RB [ nibble
.IR NI ]
.RB [ trigger
.IR NT ]
.P
.B plipconfig
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Plipconfig
is used to (hopefully) improve PLIP performance by changing the default
timing parameters used by the PLIP protocol. Results are dependent on
the parallel port hardware, cable, and the CPU speed of each machine
on each end of the PLIP link.
.LP
If the single
.I interface
argument is given,
.B plipconfig
displays the status of the given interface
only.  Otherwise, it will try to set the options.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBnibble\fP \fI NI\fP
Sets the nibble wait value in microseconds. Default is 3000.
.TP
\fBtrigger\fP \fINT\fP
Sets the trigger wait value in microseconds. Default is 500.

.P
PLIP speed can in some cases be improved by lowering the default values.
Values which are too low may cause excess use of CPU, poor interrupt
response time resulting in serial ports dropping characters, or in dropping
of PLIP packets. Changing the plip MTU can also affect PLIP speed.

.SH NOTE
If you get no response it is far more likely the irq is wrong and needs
setting with ifconfig. The few cases where the default parameters will
be too fast are those using very long cables. Something you should
never do as the parallel port is not specified or designed for driving
long cable runs.

.SH SEE ALSO
Homepage of the \fInet\-tools\fP project:
.UR https://net-tools.sourceforge.io
.UE

.P
.BR ifconfig (8)

.SH AUTHOR
.TP
John Paul Morrison
<jmorriso@bogomips.ee.ubc.ca>, <ve7jpm@ve7jpm.ampr.org>
