.TH RARP 8 "2025-09-10" "net\-tools" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"

.SH NAME
rarp \- manipulate the system RARP table

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "rarp \-a"

.P
.B rarp
.RB [ \-v ] \-d
.I hostname ...
.br
.BR rarp [ \-v "] [" \-t
.IR type ]
.B \-s
.I hostname hw_addr

.P
.B rarp
.RB [ \-V "] [" \-\-version "] [" \-h "] [" \-\-help ]

.SH NOTE
This program is obsolete.  From version 2.3, the Linux kernel
no longer contains RARP support.
Use the
.BR rarpd (8)
as a usermode replacement.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Rarp
manipulates the kernel's (before version 2.3) RARP (reverse ARP)
table in various ways.
The primary options are clearing an address mapping entry and
manually setting up one.
For debugging purposes, the
.B rarp
program also allows a complete dump of the RARP table.

The RARP table was used to announce additional MAC addresses when
ARP neighbor discoveries are received.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V
Display the version of RARP in use.
.TP
.B \-v
Tell the user what is going on by being verbose.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fItype\fP
When setting or reading the RARP table, this optional parameter tells
.B rarp
which class of entries it should check for.  The default value of
this parameter is
.B ether
(i.e. hardware code
.B 0x01
for
.B "IEEE 802.3 10Mbps Ethernet".
Other values might include network technologies such as
.B AX.25 (ax25)
and
.B NET/ROM (netrom).
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-list
Lists the entries in the RARP table.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP \fI hostname\fP, \fB\-\-delete\fP \fIhostname\fP
Remove all RARP entries for the specified host.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP \fIhostname hw_addr\fP, \fB\-\-set\fP \fIhostname hw_addr\fP
Create a RARP address mapping entry for host
.I hostname
with hardware address set to
.IR hw_addr .
The format of the hardware address is dependent on the hardware
class, but for most classes one can assume that the usual presentation
can be used.  For the Ethernet class, this is 6 bytes in hexadecimal,
separated by colons.

.SH WARNING
Some systems (notably older Suns) assume that the host replying to
a RARP query can also provide other remote boot services. Therefore
never gratuitously add rarp entries unless you wish to meet the wrath
of the network administrator.

.SH FILES
.IR /proc/net/rarp " (obsolete)"

.SH SEE ALSO
Homepage of the \fInet\-tools\fP project:
.UR https://net-tools.sourceforge.io
.UE

.P
.BR rarpd (8),
.BR arp (8),
.BR route (8),
.BR ifconfig (8),
.BR netstat (8)
.br
.BR ethers (5),
.BR hosts (5)

.SH AUTHORS
Ross D. Martin <martin@trcsun3.eas.asu.edu>,
.br
Fred N. van Kempen <waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org>,
.br
Phil Blundell <Philip.Blundell@pobox.com>.
